# Trax Gold
## The game Blitz Games Studio of Leamington Spa stole from me.

This is the cd-key that you need to activate the game once it is installed: `dn28ak45eew2`


**Read more about the intellectual property theft at:**
https://james-william-fletcher.medium.com/the-time-that-blitz-games-studio-of-leamington-spa-stole-my-game-idea-9eeab25e0592

Themed around telling the story of the Nagasaki and Hiroshima incidents, sorry if you find this a tad controversial or lacking tact I am literally autistic and did not know better at the time of making this game in the years of 2007-2008.

<hr>

Blitz Games Studio of Leamington Spa, started by the Oliver Twins stole my college final major project, a puzzle game, and then around the time of their closure would sell on the IP to the game. They took from me a game I would never receive any recognition or money for creating but also in that respect with a team of game developers under their roof they gave life to a game that I at the time could never have given it. A game that was released on Xbox live and is still widely sold today on mobile platforms.

It all started in 2017; I was a student at Wiltshire College in Trowbridge. I first started at Wiltshire College in 2006 on a basic GNVQ ICT course, which was practically identical to my GCSE in ICT.

Life was not going well for me back then. I had a terrible experience being understood as I grew up. I was tossed from doctor to doctor, learned to walk and talk at 3/4 years of age with the help of therapists. It was not until I was 9 that I was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome, a lighter, more forgiving form of Autism.

As a child, I went through 4 different primary schools and never really fit into any of them. I managed to go from mainstream primary to a special primary to then again to a rural mainstream. The rural mainstream was hard for me. I was already introduced as an outsider and had terrible anxiety. I remember quite vividly that none of the kids really liked or wanted me around, and because of this, I was often excluded from certain activities. This was a common theme of my life. I was by all means a happy, friendly, and in those ways very naive child. I was often blamed for things, and it was easy to make me smile and go red, which I felt adults took advantage of to pass the blame onto me.

By the time I finished primary, it was clear that none of my peers at the rural school wanted me at a secondary school with them, and there were only 3 options in the local area realistically. The teachers at that school had long given up on me, and I basically spent most days alone in the toilet where I was out of sight and out of mind. So it was decided I would go to a school which specialised in dealing with children who have autism spectrum disorder. It was a school comprised of half hearing impaired and half “of the autistically gifted” shall we say, for which I was one of them.

It was around this time my parents got a computer at home which was connected to the internet, it was running Microsoft Windows 98. I was somewhat obsessed, I would spend all of the hours I had on it, I started making simple games using game creator software at the time and simple batch scripts which ran computer programs I had designed, some of them executing VB.script to create simple dialog windows. Eventually, I discovered, probably via mIRC and/or Google that C or C++ programming was the next step from batch scripts and my father bought me three books on programming C and C++, the books told me that Dev C++ was a free option to compile the C code, I chose C over C++ as I preferred the syntax and started converting my batch scripts to compiled C programs, often at the time still using console commands executed via the System() function. Shortly after that, I was given a copy of Visual Basic 6 by someone my father worked with and I started programming in that, where it was much easier to make graphical user interfaces among other programs.

It was the isolation and rejection of my peers that lead me down this path of obsessive computer usage, in education I was always considered to be a dunce, or unteachable, and in many ways, it was very hard to teach me. My peers all rejected me and this made me feel very lonely and isolated. On the computer, I could teach myself, and with the help of the internet via a 56k modem at my fingertips, I was by all means flourishing.

After secondary school, my options were looking bleak, while I was very good at computers for my age it was unlikely I would get into a college in the local area with GCSE’s alone, so my parents sent me off to a boarding school for children with high functioning Asperger’s. This is where I started my first year at Wiltshire College, which I believe was actually called Trowbridge College at the time as it was located in the town of Trowbridge.

My first year was very hard for me, I had no idea where life was going to take me but I figured it was going to be as bleak as my life had been so far, I was studying a year which felt like a wasted year because it was essentially the same qualification I had gotten prior in my GCSE’s and I was interested in programming not spreadsheets and databases, or word processing which I was already proficient in. But luckily for me, the college started a BTEC Games Development course in the second year of 2007, and I joined it, it was a two year course making my total time at the college three years and I adored it. For the first time, I felt like my life had a future.

Stan Zych was teaching the course and he was a brilliant teacher, his idol was clearly Steve Jobs and Stan would teach us how to use Autodesk 3D Studio Max, something I would never have taught myself autonomously, as I always struggled creatively with art although I think it’s fair to say I was a very creative person just more so physically with bricks of Lego or KNEX growing up and this creativity had now passed into my programming. I managed to combine this newfound skill of 3D modelling with my programming of C which around that time had evolved into C++ taking up the Object-Oriented design principles, having read the book Programming Game AI by Example which really sold the concept of OO to me. So I began making simple 3D games using C++ and the Ogre 3D rendering engine.

It was around the end of the first year I began to come up with the game Trax, a 2D puzzle game that I would work on for my final major project in the final term of college. Stan Zych was very interested in my game idea and would spend a lot of time with me trying to understand it, he told me that he had contacts at Blitz Games and that maybe he could get me an internship. I remember that Stan would insinuate he had ideas to improve my game, hinting at the idea of using round pipe pieces rather than square tiles but he would never really fully share his ideas with me, he seemed to be keeping them in reserve and I never really knew why. His attitude seemed to be that, he would try to prod me in a direction but if I didn’t lead myself to the conclusion he was prodding towards then that was just how things would be. Looking back it was clear that Stan saw potential in the game idea I had created called Trax, a game that by all means was original, had never been created prior, and he was developing an improved version in the back of his mind.

One day Stan brought me into his office and told me that some representatives of Blitz Games had come by to see my work and that I had somehow blown it and it was all my fault, I thought this was odd that he would tell me this, ultimately he was telling me that the internship he had been somewhat suggestively promising me at Blitz Games, if I did a good job on the game project I was working on for my final major project, was no longer going to be an option for me.

2008 I had finished the project Trax; Stan Zych and Wiltshire college had given me the opportunity I needed to get into a good university and at the beginning of 2009 I was in my first year at Teesside University. I kept my eye on Blitz Games periodically because I still believed that maybe I had a chance to work with them someday, as they knew of me and my work through Stan Zych and then that’s when I saw they had released a new game, and it was called Droplitz.

Droplitz was by all means the same game I had developed at Wiltshire college, but with the improvements, Stan had been hinting at. Was I angry, yes, did I feel cheated, absolutely, but was there anything I could do about it? No. I did seek legal advice at the time but after weeks of looking at my case, I was told that it would be very hard to fight in court.

But it does not end there, in a strange twist of fate it would turn out in my third year of university that I would be offered a two-day practical interview at Blitz games to compete for a job as a game programmer under their roof.

What can I tell you about this interview? well, it was awfully strange. I was working in an office on the top floor with other members of staff, no one really spoke to me and I felt as if I would be disturbing others by starting a conversation with them. The only person I really spoke to was a man sitting on my left who was working as an audio programmer, which was a great interest of mine at the time as I had been developing my own audio software such as the Borg ER-2 inspired by the Korg ER-1 hardware synthesizers, so I enjoyed very much talking with him — although it would later turn out that I would be scolded for this and accused of “trying to steal other peoples jobs”. To be honest, and I don’t say this out of spite but there was a particularly confident male up in that same office with me who had done talks at my university prior, and a talk I had attended when I was at Wiltshire College, he was your typical bodybuilder type, overconfident and forward to the point of being obnoxious and I remember many of my peers both in college and university having this same impression of not just him, but everyone from blitz games who happened to be speakers at these talks, they were seeming overly pompous, introducing themselves with over qualified degrees for their positions and had a general air of superiority.

The bodybuilder “guy” I don’t remember his name, he did make a sarcy comment to me while I was on that 2 day work interview/practical to imply that I was “not doing much” in what was essentially an open project spec with a very loose rule-set, one where I had to use their engine to create a game of my own design.

There was also this one curious incident while I was there, you see on the top floor the was a sort of kitchen and it was filled with a wholesale amount of chocolate bars and such which employees could eat freely, I never went near it and never ate anything from it in the fear of seeming like I was talking advantage however the evening after my first day it would seem someone “stole all the candy bars” (lol absurd I know) and that the security cameras had not been running for whatever reason (a real mission impossible job for the candy bars?), I obviously being the new person in there felt as if I would seem like the culprit but no one directly accused me and it was just one of those things. Obviously, even if I wanted to, I did not have the means to steal a truck full of candy bars and hide them at the bed and breakfast which the Blitz Games Company had booked for me.

Anyway, ultimately they reviewed the game I made, it was a simple 3D game where you played as a tugboat which had to guide a smaller boat you where tugging into particular waypoints, the aim of the game was to collect all of the waypoints. Simple, but it was two days and they made kids games so it seemed apt. A number of staff congregated behind me to see the demonstration, one of them talked very down to me and made some comment of the “this is all you have done” nature although there was an older member of staff who seemed to have come from a different floor who was more sympathetic to the heckle and told me he liked it.

A week later and I was called into the office with my work placement advisor at university, I had gotten some feedback, I wish I had kept it as evidence but it genuinely was an A4 page of the most horrible feedback I had ever gotten in my life attacking my character, basically making me out to be a worthless piece of shit. It was so bad that when my parents saw it they complained to the University, because the careers advisor talked to me as if I had deserved the harsh criticism but while I was there I had only spoke to two people, the man sitting on my left and the man who wrote the feedback, the same man who was my overseer or point of contact for the two-day work placement. They tore me to shreds, my parents read it and said “did they not know you are Autistic, surly the university would have informed them before you went” well they did know I was autistic, because on the first day we had a meal with some random people from the company who were not from the same floor I was working on and my “point of contact” and some of them mentioned he was autistic and I told him that I am also autistic and that I found it comforting to know that I was not alone in that sense, you know, not the only “weirdo” or social outcast in the building.

I feel like they invited me there, and never really gave me a chance, and still to this day I wonder if they invited me there just to assassinate my character or beat me down as some kind of sick joke. Honestly.

There’s nothing I can do now to change what happened, all I can do is write down my turn of events, below I have a link to an old Youtube where I uploaded videos of my original game project Trax with uploads dated 2008 and then some links of the Droplitz game Blitz Games Studios released in 2009.

The game has exactly the same specification as my original game, the only difference is that the tiles are circular and rotate rather than being square and adhering to slide-puzzle movement mechanics.

**Trax Videos:**<br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w54gRmyYYWY<br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yS0FpynqCH4

**Droplitz:**<br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NazO7L89CKw<br>
https://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/132623/postmortem_blitz_games_droplitz.php<br>
https://atlus.fandom.com/wiki/Droplitz<br>
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Droplitz<br>
https://delistedgames.com/droplitz/

What can I say, I personally feel Blitz Games was a deplorable games company based on my experiences with them. Since their closure in 2013 it seems that the company fractioned into a number of new game studios, two of which are Unit2Games which still hosts the Blitz Games Studios website here and is currently working on the Google Stadia game Crayta, and Radiant Worlds or now known as Rebellion Warwick who are currently working on Sniper Elite and Evil Genius.

I have no doubt that to this day prior staff of Blitz games will argue that they created this game concept, like they did back in 2011 when I tried to seek legal action and that “it is possible for two people to come up with similar ideas around the same time” but based on the experiences I have shared with you, I will leave you to be the decider on how much truth there is in those statements and whatever loose evidence they can muster to back them up.

How do I feel about it all? in one aspect I am proud to say I created a game concept that a big company thought was good enough to steal, and they did a good job of it, they did ultimately give life to, or do justice for a game with their huge team of game developers and resources that I at that point in my life was incapable of doing and Stan Zych gave me an incredible start in life, allowing me the pathway to get into a brilliant university such as Teesside University where I met incredible tutors such as Keith Ditchburn and Tyrone Davison.

But, I also feel, that I deserve that recognition which I was denied, at the very least, for being the original IP holder, the creator of the Droplitz game concept.

I never did get a job in the games industry and to be honest with you, I live a very jaded and solemn life to date, I don’t have much of any trust in my fellow man and truly feel as if the world is out to do me wrong. I am an analytical person and the majority of my experiences with other people have been deceitful, although there are some truly kind hearted people out there whom alone make up for what I consider to be the hordes of malevolence; I feel safer not leaving my flat, not engaging with the outside world at all. These experiences have tormented me for the best part of 12 years and I had to get them off my chest and for that I thank you dearly for taking the time to read them.

James
